Add Migration Assistant Type Mapping documentation (#9164)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _migration-assistant/migration-phases/planning-your-migration/handling-type-mapping-deprecation.md

---

# Handling type mapping deprecation

During a migration from Elasticsearch versions 6.x and before, you may have used the type mapping feature. This page provides a cookbook of different scenarios and templates that can be used to handle these deprecations.

## Understanding type mapping deprecation

Elasticsearch indices created prior to 6.x could contain multiple types per index. This feature has been deprecated and removed in newer versions of Elasticsearch and OpenSearch. Because of this, during migrations, you may need to specify the behavior to occur when migrating items that used type mappings. For more details, refer to [Elasticsearch's official documentation on the removal of mapping types](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.10/removal-of-types.html).

## Handling type mapping deprecation

To handle type mapping deprecation, you can leverage the built in TypeMappingsSanitizationTransformer. This transformer can be used to transform the data (metadata, documents, requests) and update the behavior accordingly.

### Using the TypeMappingsSanitizationTransformer

1. Navigate to the bootstrap box and open the `cdk.context.json` with vim.

> 2. Add/Update the key `reindexFromSnapshotExtraArgs` to include `--doc-transformer-config-file /shared-logs-output/transformation.json`. [^1]

Reviewer: I think this comment is still relevant - what do we thing about making this change?

> 2. Add/Update the key `reindexFromSnapshotExtraArgs` to include `--doc-transformer-config-file /shared-logs-output/transformation.json`. [^1]

Author: Tracking reducing user steps in https://opensearch.atlassian.net/browse/MIGRATIONS-2410

3. Add/Update the key `trafficReplayerExtraArgs` to include `--transformer-config-file /shared-logs-output/transformation.json`. [^1]
4. Deploy/redeploy the Migration Assistant.
5. Navigate to the Migration Assistant console.
6. Create a file with `vim /shared-logs-output/transformation.json`. [^1]
7. Add your transformation configuration to the file (see examples below).
8. When running metadata migration, run with the additional parameter `console metadata migrate --transformer-config-file /shared-logs-output/transformation.json`.[^1]
9. If the transformation configuration is updated, backfill/replayer will need to be stopped and restarted to apply the changes.

> [^1]: The `/shared-logs-output` mount will soon be relocated with a new mountpoint on the container for the EFS volume.

Reviewer: Can we remove, what action would a reader of the document take with this note?

### Configuration Options

The TypeMappingsSanitizationTransformer supports several strategies for handling type mappings:

1. **Route to Separate Indices**: Split different types into their own indices
2. **Merge Types**: Combine multiple types into a single index
3. **Drop Types**: Selectively migrate only specific types
4. **Keep Original Structure**: Maintain the same index name while conforming to new type standards

### Example Configurations

Here are some common scenarios and their corresponding configurations:

#### 1. Route Different Types to Separate Indices

If you have an index `activity` with types `user` and `post` that you want to split into separate indices:

```json
[
  {
    "TypeMappingsSanitizationTransformerProvider": {

>       "staticMappings": {

Author: Let's keep this as is, if you feel a change is needed to this spec, please make a ticket to track

>       "staticMappings": {

Reviewer: Having different static / regex mapping is an implementation detail that is bleeding through.  It seems like for customers they want to declare a way to match the source index / source type and target index.

A static mapping can be declared as the regex format with no regex symbols, no?

        "activity": {
          "user": "new_users",
          "post": "new_posts"
        }
      },

>       "sourceProperties": {

Author: This allows us to handle different cluster behavior on the replayer during transformations, where the same source request will have different behavior on ES 6.2 vs 6.8 vs 7 and should be transformed differently.

>       "sourceProperties": {

Reviewer: Functionality that make sense, but I a missing why this is using facing.  Could you tell me about a scenario when a customer would supply a values other than what their source cluster is running?

>       "sourceProperties": {

Author: Agreed, added https://opensearch.atlassian.net/browse/MIGRATIONS-2418 to backlog

        "version": {
          "major": 6,
          "minor": 8
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```

This will:
- Route documents with type `user` to the `new_users` index
- Route documents with type `post` to the `new_posts` index

#### 2. Merge All Types into One Index

To combine multiple types into a single index:

```json
[
  {
    "TypeMappingsSanitizationTransformerProvider": {
      "staticMappings": {
        "activity": {
          "user": "combined_activity",
          "post": "combined_activity"
        }
      },
      "sourceProperties": {
        "version": {
          "major": 6,
          "minor": 8
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```

#### 3. Drop Specific Types

To migrate only specific types and drop others:

```json
[
  {
    "TypeMappingsSanitizationTransformerProvider": {
      "staticMappings": {
        "activity": {

>           "user": "users_only",

Author: Tracking in https://opensearch.atlassian.net/browse/MIGRATIONS-2409

>           "user": "users_only",

Reviewer: I'm fine having this followed up separately, IMO this is a good case for a breaking changes that helps users better identify problems with their configuration.

        }
      },
      "sourceProperties": {
        "version": {
          "major": 6,
          "minor": 8
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```
This configuration will only migrate documents of type `user` and ignore other types in the `activity` index.

### 4. Keep original structure

To migrate only specific types and keep the original structure:

```json
[
  {
    "TypeMappingsSanitizationTransformerProvider": {
      "regexMappings": [
        [
          "(.*)",
          ".*",
          "$1"

>         ]

Reviewer 2: +1, these are super confusing and not explained at all. I think we had previously discussed these being dicts, e.g. `{"index_regex": "(.*)", "type_regex": ".*", "new_index": "$1"}` or whatever names, but either way we definitely need more explanation.

>         ]

Reviewer: I'm pushing back on this - I understand this is a change to the product, but it seems like a trivial amount of work to made the adjustment in the MA codebase.  Is there something that I'm missing out on?

>         ]

Author: Updated to include [MIGRATIONS-2407](https://opensearch.atlassian.net/browse/MIGRATIONS-2407)

      ],
      "sourceProperties": {
        "version": {
          "major": 6,
          "minor": 8
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```

This is equivalent to the merge all types into one index rule but using a pattern-based routing strategy.

### Defaults

> When no regex mappings are specified, the transformer will default to the following behavior:

Reviewer 2: Is this when nothing at all is specified? Or `regexMappings` is specified but it's empty?

```json
{
  "regexMappings": [
    ["(.+)", "_doc", "$1"],
    ["(.+)", "(.+)", "$1_$2"]
  ],
}
```

This has the effect of retaining the index name for es 6+ created indices while comibining the type and index name for es 5.x created indices. If you wish to retain the index name for es 5.x created indices, please use the `staticMappings` option or override the type mappings using the `regexMappings` option similar to the `Keep original structure`

> 

Reviewer 2: Can you give an example/some more info on how these can be combined for multiple indices? Is it possible to combine `regexMappings` for one index with static mappings for another? Can you show an example with multiple static mappings?

### Limitations

- The transformer cannot be used prior to Elasticsearch 6.x.
- Within the replayer, the transformer only supports a subset of requests that may be replayed with types, in particular:
  - PUT/POST /{index}/{type}/{id} 
  - PUT/POST /{index}/{type}/
  - GET /{index}/{type}/{id}
  - PUT/POST /_bulk

>   - PUT/POST /{index}

Reviewer: Lets turn this into a table with a leading column for the operation name such as `Index`, etc `Bulk Index/Update/Delete`.

- Within the replayer, create index split is not supported.

>   - Note: This is only impactful on ES 5.x since multi type index creation is not supported on ES 6.x.

Reviewer: Lets frame this like the other operations so its easier to see.

If it is a known gap, we should proactively create a github issue that folks could comment / vote on and we'd leave a link here in the docs.

> ### Important Notes

Reviewer: these important notes are at the bottom, lets see if we can better integrate them into the workflow.

- After ES 6, documents either have no type or are forced to use the type `_doc`

> - When migrating from ES 6, some type context might not be available (e.g., during RFS operations)

Reviewer 2: I don't think I understand what this point means

#### 2. Merge all types into one index

To combine multiple types into a single index:

```JSON
[
  {
    "TypeMappingsSanitizationTransformerProvider": {
      "staticMappings": {
        "activity": {
          "user": "activity",
          "post": "activity"
        }
      },
      "sourceProperties": {
        "version": {
          "major": 6,
          "minor": 8
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```

#### 3. Drop specific types

To migrate only specific types within the `activity` index and drop non specified types:

```JSON
[
  {
    "TypeMappingsSanitizationTransformerProvider": {
      "staticMappings": {
        "activity": {
          "user": "users_only",
        }
      },
      "sourceProperties": {
        "version": {
          "major": 6,
          "minor": 8
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```
This configuration will only migrate documents of type `user` and ignore other types in the `activity` index.

### 4. Keep original structure

To migrate only specific types and keep the original structure:

```JSON
[
  {
    "TypeMappingsSanitizationTransformerProvider": {
      "regexMappings": [
        [
          "(.*)",
          ".*",
          "$1"

>         ]

Reviewer 2: This one still really needs more explanation -- there's no context at all about what each of these entries mean. Can you add a blurb explaining what they do?

Author: Added a schema section that describes this

        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```
{% include copy.html %}

### Drop specific types

To migrate only the `user` type within the `activity` index and drop all documents/requests with types not directly specified, use the following configuration:

```json
[
  {
    "TypeMappingSanitizationTransformerProvider": {
      "staticMappings": {
        "activity": {
          "user": "users_only"
        }
      },
      "sourceProperties": {
        "version": {
          "major": 6,
          "minor": 8
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```
{% include copy.html %}

This configuration only migrates documents of type `user` and ignores other document types in the `activity` index.

### Keep the original structure

To migrate only specific types and keep the original structure, use the following configuration:

```JSON
[
  {
    "TypeMappingSanitizationTransformerProvider": {
      "regexMappings": [
        {
          "sourceIndexPattern": "(.*)",
          "sourceTypePattern": ".*",
          "targetIndexPattern": "$1"
        }
      ],
      "sourceProperties": {
        "version": {
          "major": 6,
          "minor": 8
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```
{% include copy.html %}

> This is equivalent to the strategy of merging all types into one index but uses a pattern-based routing strategy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is equivalent to the strategy of merging all types into one index but also uses a pattern-based routing strategy.
```

## Using the type mapping transformer

To address type mapping deprecation, use the `TypeMappingsSanitizationTransformer`. This transformer can modify data, including metadata, documents, and requests so that the previously mapped data can be used in OpenSearch. To being using the mapping transformer:

1. Navigate to the bootstrap box and open the `cdk.context.json` with vim.
2. Add or update the key `reindexFromSnapshotExtraArgs` to include `--doc-transformer-config-file /shared-logs-output/transformation.json`.
3. Add or update the key `trafficReplayerExtraArgs` to include `--transformer-config-file /shared-logs-output/transformation.json`.
4. Deploy the migration assistant.
5. Navigate to the Migration Assistant console.
6. Create a file called `/shared-logs-output/transformation.json`.
7. Add your transformation configuration to the file. For configuration options, see [Configuration options](#configuration-options).

> 8. When running the metadata migration, run the configuration with the transfomer using the command, `console metadata migrate --transformer-config-file /shared-logs-output/transformation.json`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
8. When running the metadata migration, run the configuration with the transformer using the command, `console metadata migrate --transformer-config-file /shared-logs-output/transformation.json`.
```

>   

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Anytime the transformation configuration is updated, the backfill and replayer tools will need to be stopped and restarted to apply the changes. Any already migrated data and metadata may need to be cleared to avoid an inconsistent state.

### Configuration options

The `TypeMappingsSanitizationTransformer` supports several strategies for handling type mappings:

> 1. **Route to Separate indexes**: Split different types into their own indexes

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. **Route different types to separate indexes**: Split different types into their own indexes.
```

> 2. **Merge Types**: Combine multiple types into a single index

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. **Merge all types into one index**: Combine multiple types into a single index.
```

> 3. **Drop Types**: Selectively migrate only specific types

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. **Drop specific types**: Selectively migrate only specific types.
```

> 4. **Keep Original Structure**: Maintain the same index name while conforming to new type standards

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. **Keep the original structure**: Maintain the same index name while conforming to new type standards.
```

> 

Reviewer 4: Line 40: Should "the" precede "new type standards"?

### Type mapping transformer configuration schema

> The type mapping transformer uses the following configuration options:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The type mapping transformer uses the following configuration options.
```

| **Field**  | **Type** | **Required** | **Description** | 
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |

> | `staticMappings`   | `object` | No   | A map of `{ indexName: { typeName: targetIndex } }` to **statically** route specific types. <br/><br/> For any **index** listed on this page, types **not** included in its object are **dropped** (no data or requests migrated for those omitted types).   |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `staticMappings`   | `object` | No   | A map of `{ indexName: { typeName: targetIndex } }` used to **statically** route specific types. <br/><br/> For any **index** listed on this page, types **not** included in its object are **dropped** (no data or requests are migrated for those omitted types).   |
```

> | `regexMappings`    | `array`  | No   | A list of **regex-based** rules for **dynamic** routing of source index/type names to a target index. <br/><br/> Each element in this array is itself an object with `sourceIndexPattern`, `sourceTypePattern`, and `targetIndexPattern` fields. <br/><br/> For more information about the **Default value**, see [Defaults](#Defaults). |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `regexMappings`    | `array`  | No   | A list of **regex-based** rules for **dynamic** routing of source index/type names to a target index. <br/><br/> Each element in this array is itself an object with `sourceIndexPattern`, `sourceTypePattern`, and `targetIndexPattern` fields. <br/><br/> For information about the **default value**, see [Defaults](#Defaults). |
```

> | `regexMappings`    | `array`  | No   | A list of **regex-based** rules for **dynamic** routing of source index/type names to a target index. <br/><br/> Each element in this array is itself an object with `sourceIndexPattern`, `sourceTypePattern`, and `targetIndexPattern` fields. <br/><br/> For more information on the **Default value**, see [Defaults](#Defaults). |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `regexMappings`    | `array`  | No   | A list of **regex-based** rules for **dynamic** routing of source index/type names to a target index. <br/><br/> Each element in this array is itself an object with `sourceIndexPattern`, `sourceTypePattern`, and `targetIndexPattern` fields. <br/><br/> For more information about the **Default value**, see [Defaults](#Defaults). |
```

| `sourceProperties` | `object` | Yes  | Additional **metadata** about the source (for example, its Elasticsearch/OpenSearch version). Must include at least `"version"` with `"major"` and `"minor"` fields.   |

The following example JSON configuration provides a transformation schema:

<details>
<summary>Example JSON Configuration</summary>

```JSON
{

>   "TypeMappingsSanitizationTransformerProvider": {

Reviewer: @AndreKurait Pretty sure in the code this is TypeMapping~s~SanitizationTransformerProvider, could you double check which way we want it to be documented?

Author: Updated!

    "staticMappings": {
      "{index-name-1}": {
        "{type-name-1}": "{target-index-name-1}",
        "{type-name-2}": "{target-index-name-2}"
      }
    },
    "regexMappings": [
      {
        "sourceIndexPattern": "{source-index-pattern}",
        "sourceTypePattern": "{source-type-pattern}",
        "targetIndexPattern": "{target-index-pattern}"
      }
    ],
    "sourceProperties": {
      "version": {
        "major": "NUMBER",
        "minor": "NUMBER"
      }
    }
  }
}

> {% include copy.html %}

Author: @Naarcha-AWS, should this be inside our outside the ```

{% include copy.html %}

</details>

> 

Reviewer 4: Delete line?

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

## Example configurations

> The following example configurations show how to use the transformer for different mapping type scenarios:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following example configurations show you how to use the transformer for different mapping type scenarios.
```

### Route different types to separate indexes

If you have an index `activity` with types `user` and `post` that you want to split into separate indexes, use the following configuration:

```json
[
  {
    "TypeMappingSanitizationTransformerProvider": {
      "staticMappings": {
        "activity": {
          "user": "new_users",
          "post": "new_posts"
        }
      },
      "sourceProperties": {
        "version": {
          "major": 6,
          "minor": 8
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
{% include copy.html %}
```

This transformer will perform the following:

> - Route documents with type `user` to the `new_users` index

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Route documents with type `user` to the `new_users` index.
```

> - Route documents with type `post` to the `new_posts` index

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Route documents with type `post` to the `new_posts` index.
```

### Merge all types into one index

> To combine multiple types into a single index, use the following configuration:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To merge all types into one index, use the following configuration:
```

```json
[
  {
    "TypeMappingSanitizationTransformerProvider": {
      "staticMappings": {
        "activity": {
          "user": "activity",
          "post": "activity"
        }
      },
      "sourceProperties": {
        "version": {
          "major": 6,
          "minor": 8
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```
{% include copy.html %}

### Drop specific types

To migrate only the `user` type within the `activity` index and drop all documents/requests with types not directly specified, use the following configuration:

```json
[
  {
    "TypeMappingSanitizationTransformerProvider": {
      "staticMappings": {
        "activity": {
          "user": "users_only"
        }
      },
      "sourceProperties": {
        "version": {
          "major": 6,
          "minor": 8
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```
{% include copy.html %}

> This configuration only migrates documents of type `user` and ignore other types in the `activity` index.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This configuration only migrates documents of type `user` and ignores other document types in the `activity` index.
```

> ### Keep original structure

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Keep the original structure
```

> To migrate only specific types and keep the original structure:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To migrate only specific types and keep the original structure, use the following configuration:
```

```JSON
[
  {
    "TypeMappingSanitizationTransformerProvider": {
      "regexMappings": [
        {
          "sourceIndexPattern": "(.*)",
          "sourceTypePattern": ".*",
          "targetIndexPattern": "$1"
        }
      ],
      "sourceProperties": {
        "version": {
          "major": 6,
          "minor": 8
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```
{% include copy.html %}

> This is equivalent to the merge all types into one index rule but using a pattern-based routing strategy.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is equivalent to the strategy of merging all types into one index but uses a pattern-based routing strategy.
```

> 

Reviewer 4: Line 202: Should "also" precede "uses"?

### Combining multiple strategies

> You can combine both static and regex-based mappings to handle different indexes or patterns in a single migration. For example, you might have one index that must use `staticMappings` and another that uses `regexMappings` to route all types by pattern.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can combine both static and regex-based mappings to manage different indexes or patterns in a single migration. For example, you might have one index that must use `staticMappings` and another that uses `regexMappings` to route all types by pattern.
```

For each document, request, or metadata item (processed individually for bulk requests), the following steps are performed:

> 1. The index is checked to see if it matches an entry in the static mappings.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. The index is checked to determine whether it matches an entry in the static mappings.
```

   - If matched, the type is checked against the index component of the static mappings entry.

>      - If the type matches, the mapping is applied, and the resulting index is the value of the type key.

Reviewer 4: Is the resulting index literally the value of the type key? If not, we need to use a verb other than "is" (second instance).

Reviewer 3: Contains would be the most accurate here.

Reviewer 3: Better yet, lets use "includes".

>      - If the type matches, the mapping is applied, and the resulting index is the value of the type key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     - If the type matches, the mapping is applied, and the resulting index contains the value of the type key.
```

     - If the type doesn't match, the request/document/metadata is dropped and not migrated.

> 2. If the index is not matched in the static mappings, the index-type combination is checked against each item in the regex mappings list, in order from first to last. If a match is found, the mapping is applied, the resulting index becomes the value of the type key, and no further regex matching is performed.

Reviewer 4: "index-type" => "index/type"? In the second sentence, does the resulting index literally become the value of the type key? If not, we need to use a verb other than "becomes".

> 2. If the index is not matched in the static mappings, the index-type combination is checked against each item in the regex mappings list, in order from first to last. If a match is found, the mapping is applied, the resulting index becomes the value of the type key, and no further regex matching is performed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. If the index is not matched in the static mappings, the index-type combination is checked against each item in the regex mappings list, in order from first to last. If a match is found, the mapping is applied, the resulting index includes the value of the type key, and no further regex matching is performed.
```

3. Any request, document, or metadata that doesn't match the preceding cases is dropped, and the documents they contain are not migrated.

> The following example demonstrates how to combine static and regex-based mappings for different indices:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to combine static and regex-based mappings for different indexes:
```

```json
[
  {
    "TypeMappingSanitizationTransformerProvider": {
      "staticMappings": {
        "activity": {
          "user": "users_activity",
          "post": "posts_activity"
        },
        "logs": {
          "error": "logs_error",
          "info": "logs_info"
        }
      },
      "regexMappings": [
        {
          "sourceIndexPattern": "orders.*",
          "sourceTypePattern": ".*",
          "targetIndexPattern": "all_orders"
        }
      ],
      "sourceProperties": {
        "version": {
          "major": 6,
          "minor": 8
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```
{% include copy.html %}

### Defaults

> When `regexMappings` key is missing from the transformation config, `regexMappings` will default to the following:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When the `regexMappings` key is missing from the transformation configuration, `regexMappings` will default to the following:
```

```JSON
{
  "regexMappings": [
    {
      "sourceIndexPattern": "(.+)",
      "sourceTypePattern": "_doc",
      "targetIndexPattern": "$1"
    },
    {
      "sourceIndexPattern": "(.+)",
      "sourceTypePattern": "(.+)",
      "targetIndexPattern": "$1_$2"
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

> This has the effect of retaining the index name for es 6+ created indexes while combining the type and index name for es 5.x created indexes. If you wish to retain the index name for es 5.x created indexes, use the `staticMappings` option or override the type mappings using the `regexMappings` option similar to the `Keep original structure`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This has the effect of retaining the index name for indexes created in Elasticsearch 6.x or later while combining the type and index name for indexes created in Elasticsearch 5.x. If you want to retain the index name for indexes created in Elasticsearch 5.x, use the `staticMappings` option or override the type mappings using the `regexMappings` option.
```

## Limitations

> 

Reviewer 4: Stacked headings. Please address.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

When using the transformer, remember the following limitations.
```

> ### Traffic replayer

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Traffic Replayer
```

> For the Traffic Replayer, **only a subset** of requests that include types is supported:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For the Traffic Replayer, **only a subset** of requests that include types is supported. These requests are listed in the following table.
```

| **Operation**                | **HTTP method(s)** | **Endpoint**           | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|------------------------------|--------------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | **Index (by ID)**            | PUT / POST         | `/{index}/{type}/{id}` | Create or update a single document with an explicit ID.                                                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| **Index (by ID)**            | PUT/POST         | `/{index}/{type}/{id}` | Create or update a single document with an explicit ID.                                                                                                                                                                           |
```

> | **Index (auto ID)**          | PUT / POST         | `/{index}/{type}/`     | Create a single document where the ID is auto-generated.                                                                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| **Index (auto ID)**          | PUT/POST         | `/{index}/{type}/`     | Create a single document for which the ID is automatically generated.                                                                                                                                                                          |
```

| **Get Document**             | GET                | `/{index}/{type}/{id}` | Retrieve a document by ID.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

> | **Bulk Index/Update/Delete** | PUT / POST         | `/_bulk`               | Perform multiple create/update/delete operations in a single request.                                                                                                                                                             |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| **Bulk Index/Update/Delete** | PUT/POST         | `/_bulk`               | Perform multiple create/update/delete operations in a single request.                                                                                                                                                             |
```

> | **Create/Update Index**      | PUT / POST         | `/{index}`             | Create or update an index. <br/><br/> **Split** behavior is not supported in the replayer. [See GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-migrations/issues/1305) to leave feedback or vote on this feature. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| **Create/Update Index**      | PUT/POST         | `/{index}`             | Create or update an index. <br/><br/> **Split** behavior is not supported in the Traffic Replayer. See [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-migrations/issues/1305) to provide feedback or to vote on this feature. |
```

### Reindex-From_Shapshot

> For `Reindex-From-Snapshot,` Elasticsearch 6+ created indexes will use `_doc` as the type for all documents, even if a different type was specified on Elasticsearch 6.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For `Reindex-From-Snapshot,` indexes created in Elasticsearch 6.x or later will use `_doc` as the type for all documents, even if a different type was specified in Elasticsearch 6.
```

]
```

#### 3. Drop specific types

> To migrate only specific types within the `activity` index and drop non specified types:

Author: Updated

This is equivalent to the merge all types into one index rule but using a pattern-based routing strategy.

### 5. Combining multiple strategies

You can combine both static and regex-based mappings to handle different indices or patterns in a single migration. For example, you might have one index that must use **staticMappings** and another that uses **regexMappings** to route all types by pattern.

When an index is included in staticMappings, no regexMappings will be applied. 

```json
[
  {
    "TypeMappingsSanitizationTransformerProvider": {
      "staticMappings": {
        "activity": {
          "user": "users_activity",
          "post": "posts_activity"
        },
        "logs": {
          "error": "logs_error",
          "info": "logs_info"
        }
      },
      "regexMappings": [
        [
          "orders.*",
          ".*",
          "all_orders"
        ]
      ],
      "sourceProperties": {
        "version": {
          "major": 6,
          "minor": 8
        }
      }
    }
  }
]

> ```

Reviewer 2: This example is quite helpful, but can you add a little bit more about what it's doing?

This is my best guess, but I'm not sure I have it all right.

> First, each index is evaluated against the static mappings. The `activity` and `logs` indexes are both matched and the static mappings applied (in this case the `user` and `post` types in `activity` are each mapped to their own indexes, and same for the `error` and `info` types in `logs`.
> Then, each remaining index is evaluated against the index component of the `regexMappings` entry, which will match indexes that start with `orders`, and send all documents of any type into the `all_order` index in the new cluster.
> Finally, any indexes that didn't match the above cases will be dropped and the documents they contain will not be migrated.

Author: Added
